Well, I would like to ask you András Kovács, why are they making a movie about me when it would be more interesting and I think people would be more interested in a movie about my husband. Because he had such a life which cannot be compared with others who lived in this century. Madame President, your life was so intertwined so this movie will be focused on Mihály Károlyi just like on Katinka Andrássy. Now I would like you to talk about your younger years first and about the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy. Well, we thought the Monarchy is something that lasts forever and what my grandfather created and something that... that cannot be changed. There was a great admiration to our grandfather. There was a lot of talk on him in the family. We talked. He was on very good terms with Ferenc Deák and the entire Agreement with the Monarchy was created by them. Also to have József Ferenc as the Hungarian king and Austrian emperor. It was a very complicated task. So he crowned him, put the crown on the king's head. And I know that once I said something... I said something critical about him and about my uncle at Vác, and one of my cousins slapped me that even today I remember how upset he was. How can I criticize these people? They were like gods to them. They were like gods to them. Most of us never thinks about war It always seemed like the Monarchy will never change. Everything will continue as it is. My foster father was the brother of my father who died early. Gyula Andrássy Jr. whom we called Uncle Duci. He wanted to follow in my grandfather's footsteps. He was an absolute supporter of the Monarchy, even if he couldn't pull it completely himself off from the traditional anti-Habsburg mentality of the Hungarians. He politicized as a moderate oppositionist. I was more radical. I hated the Habsburgs. I wanted to show it at a ball to royal prince József. Would you mind to come here please? Others were opposing. I'll not salute to a Habsburg. Don't refer to Károlyi, he is an eccentric. He hardly noticed anything of it. Many things hurt my sense of justice. My mother's strict educational principles, the hard punishments for my stubbornness, the bigoted discipline of the convent school. Although I didn't knew too much about social injustice. It was natural for me that aristocracy runs the country. Who else could run it anyway? We lived in isolation, the close family. My mother, my foster father, my sisters, Ilona, Boji, their husbands and my sister Kája. Who was my best friend for a long time and my only confidant. Travels, balls, hospitality they made our lives. And hunts I hated because of their cruelty. THE RED COUNTESS Based upon the memoirs, letters and words by Mihályné Károlyi written by: Music by Starring Director of Photography Directed by What? Why are you giggling? This is really bad manners. Look at the newspapers. It's outrageous. Thank you. - What do you order, countess majesty? - Yes, what the others have. The Eiffel Tower will be demolished so I thought I would climb to the top. What a building! My French friends also hate this Tour Eiffel. - It's not Effel but Eiffel. - You know everything better. Yes, but if you were in France, then you could hear it yourself. - That's what the French say. - Let's bet! Though it's not fair in an obvious matter. Not modest at all. - I could say the same about you. - Katus is right. Of course, women are always right. May I ask you not to swing the boat? May I ask you to keep it direction? I can't keep it like this. I will be soaking wet. Let's go there! There is a good port. Don't point your finger but try to row together. - Katus, the water is very cold. - No problem. Katus! Katus! What happened? - Where is she going? - Home. - Like this? - Yes. - I'm going too. - I cannot make a joke on you? Have fun! You should get dressed. What happened? - What is your problem? - Nothing. Nothing happened. - Did Gyula hurt you? - No no. It's my fault. - I don't understand what. - Forget it! I feel ashamed. Should I swear I won't tell to anyone? I'm in love with Gyula. But you can't stand each other. Love with Gyula. Ridiculous, right? And does Gyula know about this? It's hopeless as he is the fiancee of my niece. There was example that an engagement broke. You just don't think that I would marry such a jerk. Then why do you say that you are in love with him? Because I'm. Don't you understand? Now. When the castle is full of guests. What kind of reputation will it have? I kiss your hand! Please have the spaletta! Running through the park in a bathing suit... As if you not live in this world. Like a lunatic. Why don't you answer? You are not present? I felt my mother was right. I'm a human without proper behavior and will. I don't have enough strength to defeat a humiliating passion. I have been such a miserable state of mind for months now that it only strengthened me the slowly developing conviction. There was only decent solution for me was to end my life. What's the weather like today? It's a heat wave, your majesty. Heat wave?! Where's my hairpin? Go back, look for it! Here it is, your majesty. Well, thank you. So? Did you finally come to your senses? Hm? My God, what did you do? Countess, can you hear me? Do you feel pain? Nothing wrong. Here is the guilty one. I hope it doesn't happen again playing with dangerous things. What a tiny ball. It slipped along one of the ribs like on a rail. It got almost under the skin. You need rest. - Is she in life-threatening condition? - What was the reason for the suicide? Gentlemen, I can only repeat what I said, it was an accident. - Who was she in love with? - Understand, there is no secret, which I can tell you. Why are you asking me? Who will marry you after all this? Why wouldn't they? They will spread that you followed the Roman Lucretia. That you killed yourself in shame, because the lost of innocence. - Come on, mom! - Who needs a girl like that? I didn't lose it. Who thinks of Lucrecia after two thousand years? - Just don't laugh at Lukrécia! - Ouch! She deserves more respect. Then I will be more respected. Can't take yourself seriously. It is not customary in our circles to commit suicide. This is done by broke traders. If you wanted to die so bad, why didn't you rent a plane? You could jump out high up there from it. That's the minimum. But so?! You chose the civil way of suicide. This is not appropriate. Here, your majesty. Now you can go. It's nice here in the cool. If you are watching over me not to commit the same mistake again then you wast your time here. We are not watching over you. This is Ilona's weakness: the poultry yard. Eat this! Italians are so cheerful because they always eat macaroni. Enjoy your meal! Katus! You need to figure out how to stand your place in the world as a woman. - Interested? - I'm listening. Never discuss books with men or abstract questions. Limit yourself for light chats. Because men don't like smart women. Even you? It's not about me. Try to be more naive, to appear mentally lower class against the man whom wants to conquer. You are wrong. I only want to love someone who is better than me. Someone I can admire. And if I can't find one then I would never get married. I really regret now that I didn't graduate. I can't go to university. Whatever, I'll finish a course anyway. Why do you need a course? Don't ask that, you're working yourself. She loves her animals. That's a different thing. That's entertainment. But working for money? What is it for you? To make myself independent from men. With work? After all, your only estate is worth more, than you could earn in your entire life. No I have already decided. Forty-four thousand crowns for six years with an interest rate of five percent. - Two R Pi. - Circular area? A square of Pi. Deltoid area? E x F/2. District? The pledge letter is like an interest-bearing bond, which the authorized institute... What institute is that? Katus, can I read an article? It's about you. About me? Question: Tell me, Mr. El Can, is it worth twenty thousand crowns a year to pay a beginner accountant? Answer: If this beginner accountant is named Gróf Katinka Andrássy it would be such a sensation that... I can't believe it, you made it up. Has the contract been signed yet? Why didn't you started? Come on! What happened now? Cheeky merchant declared to sign me as an accountant. You learned that, didn't you? Yes, but I want to work. But this man want to make me a promotional figure. Come on, what does a trader do? Making tricks. Uncle Duci has no idea how much calculation needed by a shop owner. I suspect that I will never learn this. Countess, I would be happy to publish an interview as an answer to this. Good but not as an answer. We don't even notice this impudence. Countess I would be more interested of the emotional motivation of this extraordinary decision. Leave me alone with love stories. There isn't and never will be. Show me one man whom I could take as my husband! What husband. With whom I can talk five minutes without yawning! - Come on, let's take them one by one! - No, God forbid! So, Countess, I can write that your disappointment in men led to this decision? A hopeless undertaking. Let's stop, shall we? Goodbye! - Hello. - Welcome. Finally here. Gentlemen, make yourself at home! Please go to the salon! I heard some strange news from Pest. One moment, sorry. What is in that law suggestion presented by Tisza... Yes, yes, but if we allow them, we will be in trouble... We must stay strong otherwise everything falls apart. We even can't vote the increasing the military budget. This leads to war. We can accept it with certain conditions. Such a small country cannot afford arming. The Monarchy is a 50 million superpower. Hungary is a country of 20 million poor people. We need to be stronger economically if we want to survive. Yes, I'm coming. - Katus, aren't we going for a drive? - Of course. - Is it broken? - I don't like something. Shouldn't we try it? Yes, we can go, countess. - But only if I can drive. - Only if you don't tell anyone. I'm driving now! Please, madam. Would you please change the speed there. That's it. Would you please on the left. Now the right. Right please. What do they think of us? Is everything possible today? - Of course I fired him. - Who did you fire? A film producer. He wants to make a movie about aristocrats and of course, to be a sensation he wants to cast a real aristocrat. It doesn't matter if it's me or someone else, the idea itself is cheeky. - Why? - How why? Katus would accept to make pictures of her in company of ordinary actors? Katus? She even became accountant at the El Can brothers. - Why not? - Not a word of it is true! This is an insult! Name your assistants! Mine: Count László Széchenyi, and Gróf Mihály Károlyi. Gentlemen, don't be fooled, that my opponent is wearing a skirt. She actually has manly ambitions. Because I want to work as an ordinary man? For accounting, gentlemen? Yes, for accounting. There are more interesting professions than accounting. What do you know about it? A profession? I'm not going to ask you. I don't think it's to blame, if someone wants to work. Sorry if my comment was misunderstood. The only question is what do we call work. Let's say to own 10-20 thousand acres. Or, like you, even more. Isn't that work? I'm not exhausted of it to be honest. - And I see you don't either. - Why? To look at the nails of property managers, negotiate with tenants, to outsmart lawyers, feed thousands, isn't that work? In our family Károlyi was considered a political opponent. As he wanted completely transform the Monarchy, my grandfather's work. I saw the politics through the glasses of my family. However after a few conversations I felt disagreements don't matter. We both of us will agree in real important issues together with Mihály. All I cared about he was also interested. And made me curious about many things, which I did not deal with until then. Besides, it's not even sure the next decades they will know the concept of landowner. My mother is not against me working. Mom always hated being idle. But if they objected, it wouldn't bother me either. Join them! I hate this carnage. I'd rather go back to the forest. I'll go with you. I only care about riding in fox hunting. It was like a serenity I felt beside Mihály. The opposite of my restless and confusing life. For the first time I felt that there was someone who understood me. Pull it! Pull it! Pull it! Pull it! - Why isn't it pulled by horses? - Because it's cheaper like this. Pull it! Pull it! Pull it! Pull it! There was not a single word said between us about love. But I knew I found the man I was looking for so much. Someone I can look up to. Let me adjust your belt. I see you're having a good time. Very pretty. Katus, listen! Adjust your hair! There, in the back. - Who is next in the dance order? - I don't make commitments. I wouldn't do so if I were you. I'm so happy. I think Mihály's negotiations with Uncle Duci multiplied because of you. I hope so. Also yesterday, when Uncle Duci came, then Mihály... You promised me this waltz. May I have this waltz? May I? More recently, my middle daughter likes to play the piano very much. Madeleine teaches her, but she also has a teacher. Madeleine plays very well. And actually when... - We used to dance a long ago. - Not so long ago. You're getting jealous, darling. Could be. - Ella, darling. - Madeleine! I envy you your beautiful daughters. God, how time flies. They were just children a few years ago. They are still children I think. You shouldn't say that at their age. - Did you get the invitation? - Yes, thank you. Oh, I'm so hot. I'm looking for something refreshing. - Mihály, will you accompany me? - Of course. Excuse me. Be careful not to be in love! You had trouble with Gyula as well. How can you compare Gyula to Mihály? You know, I found out that Madeleine has been Mihály's lover for ten years. He didn't married her for ten years, why would he marry her now? Well, if it was good for him for ten years, then it may take another ten. That means Mihály not only smart but also loyal. That's nice of a man, isn't it? You cannot be saved. Aha. Ady. - Shall we make a parody of it? - You cannot parodize it. Listen! "Since it was good in myself for myself and with myself to live, But this happiness would be so nice to switch." At the end: Oh, how I wish to desire but not with obsession whom just for minute but with obsession can be hibernated for eternal." It's as if Ady didn't write it. These cars are horrible. It's a shame to have a car where the roads are so bad. Poor Mihály! Poor Katus! If not destroyed, he would have been my husband. What makes you think he would marry you? Mom, please. He was the only man that I could have loved. What do you know what men are like. Mihály was the best prospective husband in Hungary. But he never wanted to get married. Madeleine chained him to herself too much. Mama, you're talking about a dead person. Wait, wait. This part is here, just listen! Good. - Your majesty. - The count has arrived? Yes, countess. Darling! Yesterday I locked myself here and I mourned you until you called. It was caused by overzealous journalists. It's not serious. Whose news of his death is spread, he will live long. Completely by accident, this has not even happened. They wanted to pull it out and the car fell on me. Tell me, how does it feel to be resurrected? If for no other reason than that it was worth for this smile. Would you give me an autograph on your news of death? Happily. Really witty, thank you. There are situations that inspires a saying from an old man like myself. - Young man, may I... - Excuse me. I think you shouldn't make more tension with Tisza. The obstruction of parliament has been for a year now. What did we do with it? We prevented the war preparation. But the plebs also got a push as you can see. A hundred thousand people on the street shout about revolution. This is not a joke. You have to try the agreement with Tisza. - You have to go to him! - That's too much. A Károlyi for a Tisza? His grandfather was an ordinary gentry even if he had 20.000 acres to manage. The war is inevitable. We have to prepare for this. The Monarchy would settle with the Russians. Then the Germans could not start a war all alone. We need the Germans. We can't protect ourselves without them from nationalities. The opposition should accept it. When are we going to leave this vicious circle? We have no other choice. I am only willing to negotiate on this basis. You have to understand. Go for war on the side of the Germans would be a fatal mistake. If we win, they will have more control on us. If we lose the country will fall apart. These are just nightmares of Ady, and his hysterical friends. They can write about such things, who cares?! We are politicians so let's talk facts! The opposition will either stop the obstruction in the Parliament, and this makes way to vote for approval of the military budget... We are forced to use these tactics because of your violence. Or I will use all methods which allowed by the law. - There is no such law. - So there will be such a law. I thought you not coming. I promised, so I'm here. Why doesn't he stop? No one understands. Everyone understands. Just listen, all the government people will vote it. What? Do you hear it? This is just formality. Tisza wanted absolute power, so he will get it. I invite the members of parliament to vote! Hereby I note that the Honorable House accepted the proposal. Mom, how is this possible? Well, that's politics. I suspend the meeting. According to the new house rules I order the the removal of the disruptive MP's. Stay, my dear. Come on! - Illegal! - This is unconstitutional! Are you Hungarian? You bring police to the House of the Country? Villains! How dare you?! I will not let an old men to be touched by the police. - Ten people here, arrest him! - Cowards! They don't do this anywhere in the world! Only a Tisza can do that! Let's go. That would be striking. You are ruining the country! Long live Mihály Károlyi! Allow me to say I was very disappointed, Mihály. Hello, how are you? Because that English father... - Hello, how are you? - Hello. Hello, how are you? - Didn't you hear? - I heard. But I'm not willing to accept your greeting after what happened. Please name your assistants! I couldn't see in the dark who greeted me otherwise I will not accept it. Gentlemen! I urge you to make peace. Tisza defends himself. Mihály attacks. - Who scratched whom first? - Shut up, I can't hear Gyuri. Hello, Gyuri! Is there anything wrong? No? That's great! A duel like this can never be deadly. Tisza fights better than Mihály. Mihály is sick, he has a fever. Uncle Duci said Tisza mean, capable of anything. It was about political things and I just said it in anger. An angry cut can be fatal. Hallo? Hallo? Hallo? I do not hear anything. The phone is silent. Why didn't Gyuri give us the phone number? - And what if he doesn't call? - The duel is held in a secret place, but you'll see tomorrow morning all newspaper will have detailed reports. As you know, this is part of the game. Is this a game for Uncle Duci? What can be done at this time? Anyway hang up the phone because he can't call you back. Tisza is so smart that he knows he can't take this insult. but he is also aware that he cannot seriously injure him the more inexperienced Károlyi. Hallo? Gyuri, what happened? Mihály doesn't want to stop? Mihály does not want to accept the judgment of the assistants, that satisfaction has been given. Don't let him fight any longer! Hold that bloodthirsty Tisza! Hang up the phone or give it to me! Oh my God, blood? Blood? Mihály is bleeding. Hallo? Where did he get the cut? Not lethal, just the elbow was cut by Tisza. Didn't Mihály shake hands again? This is very serious he doesn't want to reconcile. I wouldn't make peace either. I recommend Pharaoh. John, come back! It should be the other one. Cézár? All right. Jóska, bring Cézár here! You see how friendly he is. Still, I recommend Pharaoh. In a few days you will become friends with him, and then he can go. I want to try it now. Saddle up! It is dangerous to sit on it. Isn't dueling dangerous? You could have been killed. You worried about me? Anyway... Hungarian against Hungarian is the ancient Hungarian curse. We are surrounded by enemies and we we attack each other. Tisza harms Hungarians more, as the enemy. Tisza is a hundred times more Hungarian than your socialists, with whom you have people councils. I can imagine what Uncle Duci said about me. Being an aristocrat, I speak up with the socialists. The foolish count. Uncle Duci only cares about Hungary. Your friends want to sell it out to the nationalities. Oszkár Jászi, for example, whom you called a comrade. You read newspapers so carefully? You don't make assumptions about me, no? If you have patience, then I will tell you that... why is it a Hungarian interest that the nationalities feel at home. Fine, but then I'll tell you my objections. You see, you are already a democrat secretly. You brought your horses here, I thought you would stay another week. I'm really sorry. It's very urgent. It can't be that important. Say you're sick. I have to be in Pest in the morning. If you absolutely must go, then definitely find me in Pest, to continue the negotiations. My conditions remain the same. I knew he was eccentric. He's done more tricky things than that. Once he jumped off from a fast train, because... he didn't want to miss a date. He didn't even pull the emergency brake. Probably he was ordered by Madeleine. Mihály was always unpredictable. He hadn't wanted electricity in ten years in his palace at Egyetem Square. The evening was lit with candles. I can say it was beautiful. By morning we were all black because of the soot. He must be offended that I foolishly argued with him. Don't be foolish. I found out everything. Wow, how mean! - Who? - Imre Károlyi. They fear that the inheritance will be gone if Mihály has a son. - What boy are you talking about? - About yours. - Don't you understand? - About my son? What will be, or could be. I found out that Imre Károlyi warned Mihály, don't come here again if he has no intent to marry you. because you are too attached to him and gets into an awkward situation. That's mean! Of course he only wanted good, he said. Because, according to him, Mihály has no intention of getting married, and that you don't really need take seriously the feelings of a young girl because they will pass by. Did Mihály say that? No he don't, but that is the rumour. How do you know he didn't say it? He couldn't say. If he doesn't love you, he would not have gone. I have some experience of love. I called her, but she didn't want to come. - It was great, congratulations! - Thank you. One moment. Congratulations, Katus! You rode very well. I especially liked the oxer. Unfortunately I couldn't ride because I hurt my knee. Maybe then I'll say goodbye. Congratulations! Thank you. You were not here at the beginning. I thought again went to a public meeting. With my suspicious socialists. I knew you were offended because I have a different opinion. And if I care about different opinions? Tell me, did you read what Ady wrote in his article, Count Mihály's comrades? Oh, do you also read Ady? You don't assume. Of course. Say, it's true that you travelled on a train with your comrades? - Yes, we traveled on the same train. - To the same meeting? - To the same meeting. - And they didn't go over to each other. And we didn't go over to each other. I confess everything, but now we don't have time for that. Katinka, you were amazing! Like an amazon. Would Mihály travel to Saint Petersburg? You can't be serious. Mihály is so against the German alliance that he can do that. He wants to go to Paris first, leading one hundred representatives of his party. - Then to the Tsar. - Come on! A representative of 1848 independence at the Tsar's? Impossible! I'm not surprised by anything anymore when it comes to Mihály. Isn't that impossible what he says about land reform? He wants to be popular. His popularity comes in handy then for us. We always need political tricks. How could he want land reform who has ten thousand acres? Uncle Duci, I read it in the newspaper. You could also read that he died. And he will be here soon. You have to know the human nature. Mihály knows how far he can go. He is one of us. We will tame his radicalism. It should not be driven wild. What is this telescope for? You can see a Mercedes without it. Last night I dreamed that a green horse galloped along the road, and Mihály sat on its back. It's stupid. Why would he come on horseback? A horse is more beautiful than a Mercedes. Look, it's not Mihály sitting there on that horse? What an imagination you have! This is the rider who takes the afternoon post bring it from the village. This is him! This is him! It's him, Mihály! I'm going down. Don't run in front of him, you spoil everything! What can I spoil more? Hey, just don't have so many of you the age difference between. 18 years! As much as I am. But I'm not getting married anybody else. If your wish comes true, I'll climb up to the tower of the castle, and I descend on the lightning rod. There you are. Well, it's still the safest vehicle The best that you are here! Hello! Gentlemen! - You see, this is the worst. - What? - To write a letter to a man who... - What can I do? Mihaly comes, doesn't ask, where am, not looks for me. He sits down to negotiate immediately. He can leave anytime. It must be the old woman forces him to avoid me. I wrote him a letter every day, I wrote everything about that woman. Finally to realize that she is not good for him. And you are still surprised that Mihály avoids you because of that? I didn't send it. Thanks God. Show me what you wrote. Why is that? Why is that, that only a man can ask marry a woman? Burn those letters. Mihály will finds you childish. And tear that still it cannot be read from the ashes. And I watch helplessly as I lose Mihály. It's crazy, let's not go inside just uninvited. Not uninvited. It's out posted that anyone can enter, and you can see the Károlyi Palace, before being demolished. I will pay for the ticket I have the right to enter. To see how the counts live? Who will believe you how are you wondering about that? I don't care, I don't need to believe. It won't be social here anyway, but Mihály... he can be upstairs. Do you think he is the tour guide? Come with me! It will be much more pleasant on the outskirts of town. You're right. You know, Gizella, there are tenements here we are building. We're going home. László, please turn it on! Shooting! And action! Laci Széchenyi eventually took on the filming. But on the condition that everything role played by a real aristocrat. That's how I became a film actress... For a few days. Countess Gizella, please! - Could you be more passionate? - Of course. Let's try it! Shooting. And action! My princess! Stop it! Sir, you can't make a kissing with these glasses. Take it off! And action! A moment! Great! Sensational! Very good! Excuse me! Don't hate me so much because of Mihály you often see me together. It's not my business who courting you. Luckily, that Mihály did not see how stupid I behaved. I didn't care about other people's opinions. Neither friends nor family. Otherwise, the family knew everything. It wasn't hard to notice on me, that I'm in love They treated me tactfully. They pretended not to see nothing. If something worried them, it was only the question whether this will lead to marriage. Excuse me, are you free for a dance? Yes. - Tell me, Count Károlyi! - Yes. I would be willing to give advice? Of course, provided I can. It's not for me. I have a friend who... she is in love with a man but... but she is not sure that the man reciprocate her feelings. At the same time, another man would take her marry him. What do you think she would be right to marry the man who loves her, but who does she not love? If that girl really likes him the man, then she can't do that. But what if she loves him hopelessly. The man is committed to someone else. A hell of a thing. If a man falls in love with a young girl, who is committed to another. Tell your girlfriend that... marry that to the man who loves her. He will surely make her happy. Thanks for your advice. I think you're right. My girlfriend, I hope she accept it. Then we can go. Don't be angry, now I can not dance. Come dance with me! It's easier for poets, they are ageless. - How old is Ady? - Maybe 35-36. Oh. He is two years younger than me. - And that little girl? Csinszka? - She's not even 20. Bandi worries about his own sickness. - You talk him out of it? - Can Ady be convinced on anything? He has found again the faith of his happiness in this fresh, wild and indomitable child girl as he used to call her. and it doesn't bother him at all what people think about age difference. - You can only be born a poet. - Not bad for a count! It doesn't give you back your youth either. You should meet Ady sometime. According to him, you represent everything which is young in Hungary. In politics, dear Jászi. It's easier there. Our old policy has been the same for 50 years. Democracy, nationality rights. I also switched so late this threshold. The important thing is that you were capable for rejuvenation. Do you think I can do it? Ady describes you as an extraordinary man. Such a person is all young, no matter how old you are. The Tinker Bell Aria was amazing. Jerica's ball in Europe today is the best. By the way, darling. When are you traveling to Paris? Mihály is also going and I would like to go with him for a few weeks to do the Christmas shopping. - You have already received an answer from the French president? - Not yet. But that's understandable. He should gather information on the Hungarian circumstances before he meets me. And his allies also should be considered. - I'm not going before January for sure. - Hmm. Honorable Count, phone call for you. These phone calls! I'll be back. Yes? Thanks. That's great. No no no. The right time. See you then! The car, please! Immediately! Unfortunately, it is an urgent matter. I'm coming late. If we don't meet, goodbye, brother! You can stay here. Then in mid-December. - I don't think it will be good. - How come? Unless it's the French president suggests this date. In the past, you didn't need French president to travel together. I understand. You get bored. Then I wouldn't be here. We give you some crumbs for the bored lover. Madeleine! Follow me to the terrace! I'm so much in love with you. I'll run away with you even if you don't marry me, I don't care about... ...formalities. We're getting married. But we can't make it public for two-three weeks. This would be vitally important for me. For God's sake, Katus! Are you crazy? What are they spying on me for? Get out of here! They are looking for you everywhere. Uncle Duci said he would beat Mihály, if you find yourselves together. Go! - Are you completely out of your mind? - Why? Will he marry you? - After this public scandal? - No. Your only excuse is that you are crazy. May I? I have to travel because there is a threat of war. Our internal affairs they do not belong abroad. Foreign countries must see that in Hungary not everyone believes in... And if our opponents they see weakness in our peacefulness? I would like if the entente countries would not be our enemies. I try to speak again with the leaders of French politics. You were attacked here at home because of your negotiations at Paris. It is my duty to try even in the 24th hour. The men are about to come out. Go up to your room! Why? It would be embarrassing for everyone if you meet publicly after the scandal. Mostly for Mihály. I know Mihály. He is completely unreliable in women's affairs. You must not let yourself go to seduce. Great! Great! I have to leave. I can't change that. - Congratulations! - Bravo! Congratulations! You know I can't go I already told you that a week ago, I don't understand. Aunt Zenke Almássy banned it his daughter from yourself. Don't let the bad example stick to her. It's ridiculous that she tells it to everyone. Isn't the fact itself ridiculous? Tell me who will marry you after this? Which man will make himself ridiculous? Maybe you also decided how to marry below rank? - I can imagine, you did. - Me too. Excuse me. - We've been waiting for you for half an hour. - Mama, if you hear my news... Even then... I was with Mihály. - Did mom sent you? - Oh no. I went there. We can't stand that your business is ruining the atmosphere of the family. - You call it a business? - Better be silent. I suspect you will be the most grateful. I questioned Mihály for hours, when he finally blurted out... But don't tell anyone! I also promised to be silent. But family is different. So, he revealed that he loves Katus and marries her. I'm going to the tower. Where are you going? - What? Aren't you happy? - Of course. At last, you thoughtfully receive a news. We can celebrate when Mihály asks us for her hand in marriage. Tell him this, would you please. Mom, please. This is really unnecessary. What is the reason to doubt Mihály's word? Listen! You have no idea about real life. Where are you going? Intolerable! Please call her back, Duci! Huh? Hallo? 1144 please! Mihály, I would like to ask you not to listen to my family. You should not rush your decision because of me. If unexpected obstacles would arise and you would drop the idea of marriage for good, I would totally understand. Don't bother with the rush! I love you and I'm willing to do anything for you. Now I'm hanging up. We couldn't trust in better hands. If already you allow her to marry to an old man, I would have one more request. Let's postpone the public announcement after my trip to America. Of course. Now you should only ask the girl. Listen to Mihály! I already listened. - Don't you tear it down? - If you like it, I'll keep it. My infamous ancestor, Sándor Károlyi. - So many aunts! - Yes. Consider this as the first stop of our honeymoon. Honeymoon before the wedding? Consider ourselves a married couple. You could easily give up the honeymoon. You've been around the world. Just to prepare our honeymoon. - You didn't even know I existed. - I knew. You must have been 12 years old when I congratulated to your mother. I told her: How beautiful is this girl. Ask her if you don't believe me. If I'm not pushing it, you don't even notice me. I didn't dare notice you. What can a young girl do with an old man? Don't dare to talk about your age again... Just to see the rebuttal in your eyes. During the US visit of Mihály the World War broke out. Mihály immediately condemned the war. This is Hungary, where the soldiers went to the front on trains decorated with flowers caused outrage. The crowd protesting pro war broke the windows of the Károlyi Palace. Returning home, Mihály spoke out against the war. But it was a failure. There were only few who agreed with him. Ferenc József died in 1916. His successor, IV. Károly didn't support the war. He replaced István Tisza, he also listened to Mihály's advice but he did not dare to break with the Germans. He hesitated until the Entente did not gain the upper hand, and could accepted only laying arms down unconditionally. This is how we arrived to the fall of 1918 to the verge of collapse. Fire! - Fire! I shot you! - Éva! Stop! Something like that just for fun not allowed either! Where did she learn this nonsense? What do you wonder? The children in the Andrássy family absorb it with breast milk the politics. But she is Károlyi. You don't necessarily have to be a pacifist. - Are you hurting Mihály too? - Me?! I still have it here on my hand that ring which he made me do when he found out that I wanted to descend on the lightning rod. Honorable countess, a gentleman arrived from Budapest. He brought an urgent message. Come with me! Half an hour on horseback, otherwise you have to wait until evening Countess, I never ride a horse in my life, rather by car... It's stuck in the mud. Besides it also ruins the hunting. You get a tame horse. You can see how obedient. But countess, you could not have a horseman to send for the count? Every minute counts. Okay, I'll go myself then. I would shoot that big pygmy hedgehog. Honorable Count, it comes from there. My God! And if we hit you? I was hoping you could to distinguish me from a deer. You have satisfied the danger your need? Today, yes. They call you to Pest. Pál Kéri brought the news that the Entente broke through the Bulgarian front. They will reach our south borders within days. Then it's all over! - Defeat is inevitable. - We have to travel to Pest. I am retiring from politics. Uncle Duci, we can still save ourselves with an instant peace offer. That's your business. I would do more harm than good. Go do it! I finished it. Give the a signal! The hunt is over. The cars can come! I would like to go with you. You can come after me in a few days with the children. By the time I get to Pest, everything is already decided. The king will receive you immediately according to Kéri. - He said, the king ordered me? - He could. What you foretold has happened. Then be a good boy! Kiss! - Promise to take the train! - I already promised But swear! Ever since your accident, I've been panicking, when you get into the car. Good, I give in to violence. I swear! God, why was I born a woman? I can never be where something is happening. Thank God you were born a woman. Imagine yourself in my place if you are born male. That's why I don't mind that I am a woman. You did this well! This is the end of Hungary! - Are you happy now? - What did we do? It wasn't Mihály who lose the war. If Mihály doesn't have argue against the war, then... He just said what people wanted. I also read his articles. Interesting and yet not revolting? Because I want to protect the country. - Then why aren't you at the front? - This is demagoguery! - Katinka? - She will come later with the children. We've been waiting you. - A few words, if I may... - Later. Follow me! - What's new? - We must act urgently. Long live Mihály Károlyi! Long live Károlyi! You honor me, Count! Thank you. What do you think, Count will there be a revolution? I don't think so... I don't know. It can be. All I know is that I I don't want a revolution. I know myself well enough. I am not a revolutionary leader. You should go to Pest also. The king is unpredictable in a panic situation. Now it's Mihály's turn. He bet on the winning horse. Show what he can do. Uncle Duci, you shouldn't have pass the initiative to Károlyi. If we make the peace agreement we stay on top at home. - If not... - Everyone knows that I was pro-German. In fact, I still am today. Nothing is permanent in politics. The Entente is not interested either, to have a revolution here. And an Andrássy can be a protection. If we can influence him through Katus maybe the trouble can be avoided. But Katus... Did you told to the Countess that we are at table? Yes, dignified countess. Kája? Go up and tell her! So strange! I don't understand Katus either. She also bore so hard the previous pregnancies. That she undertakes a third, that's just irresponsible like what Mihály does in politics. I think it's just up to them! You see, your grandfather made this empire strong again. Even nature is like that drew the map that all the waters of Hungary, like blood vessels lead to the heart of the country. The Germans again they retreat. This is tragic! You should warn Mihály not to collaborate with all kind of people. I admit that someday the time for his obsession will come. However the situation is more dangerous than... Mom, just because the danger is great only reforms can save it and the country. Even if they saved it, it would be another Hungary. We do not want that! We'd rather perish! It's not so important. Katus, Mihály listens to you. You have to hold him back from gambling. Mihály? Not Gyuri, who wants to risk everything? Don't pretend that you don't understand what it is about! I understand everything. Then tell Mihály to stop dreaming. He had to notice that the position of a Károlyi is not among people like Jászi or Kunfi but among people like Andrássy and Eszterházy. - Oops! - Papa! Let me greet with great respect His Highness Gyula Andrássy Count! Welcome to the wise royal decision that in these difficult hours raised an Andrássy again head of the Monarchy's foreign affairs. Thank you. Long live! What happened? Uncle Duci wanted to resign from everything. Now that he can have my grandfather's position he lost his sanity. Incomprehensible. - Has the war situation improved? - It's a disaster. There is less and less hope that we can save something. Hello, please. - Was the trip pleasant? - Let's say. I hope you had a good trip. - Didn't the king even call you? - His advisors are afraid of me. Good morning, Kája! Sorry for leaving you alone. Hardly wait to see you. Boji dared to say if I can't keep you with two child it is foolish to give birth to a third. Such talk is foolish. - What did the doctor say. - I do not care. No one can decide for me. not even you. Don't even try! I just have something to do with it, too. Please understand, I need this child. Don't ask me to explain why. But I need it. Maybe it's true. I need it to tie you to me more. - It can't be better than that. - I can. I'm afraid of losing you. There is no one but you. It's a huge crime of the government for doing nothing since the Bulgarian collapse. That's right! Missed the opportunity to break with the Germans, missed to make peace and agreement with the nationalities. That's right! This government must go! Resign the government! Long live Károlyi! You have to give way to a government in which the socialists and nationalities represent themselves. Every minute we miss means one kilometer progress for the enemy. The homeland is in danger. Those who do not see this pursues ostrich politics. That's right! Long live! It's Entente-friendly! Treason! They are selling the country! Yes, we are Entente friends. Down with the war! Subtitle: Károlyi demands resignation of the government. The sympathies of the gallery... no! Sympathy demonstration in the gallery. What is the government hoping for? I don't want to play games with the words. I accept what Count Mihály Károlyi honorable MP said before. I admit that... we lost this war. Not that we cannot defend for a while longer, making the enemy's final victory more expensive, but due to the balance of power displacement there is no possibility to win the war. You can't take the responsibility for the collapse, you who even opposed it the war. Let the building collapse on those who destroyed it. And if the whole country will be destroyed? What can we expect at the peace talks, if Hungary is represented by who drag the country to war? But why is the king calling you now? Why does he want to appoint you prime minister right now? Why not a month earlier, when you would have do something? The most important that he considered it. Should I stand aside? Let me compromise all that I have represented so far? Now I can see he couldn't stand aside because the stakes were huge. The fate of millions of Hungarians after the peace treaty. Mihály knew he was the only Hungarian politician with credit at negotiations with the Entente and the nationalities. He was already recognized the right of self-determination, when he was accused of treason for this and they wanted to bring him to court. This chance has also been lost. The king did not appoint Mihály for Prime Minister. Nevertheless, when Mihály came back to Budapest, a crowd was waiting for him at the station that even I didn't know to get close to him. They shouted: If the king's majesty did not appoint Károlyi, the majesty of the people will appoint him. Shall we turn back, noble countess? Ride where they shoot! Faster! - Please, sir! - Just stop! - Where is the fight going on? - Nothing serious. Only the police shot at Károlyi's car and the soldiers responded. Hurry home! - He didn't even messaged? - No, noble countess. 2144, please! I connect you. Mrs. Mihály Károlyi here. I am looking for my husband. - Unfortunately, he's not here. - He didn't even visit your place? - No, Countess. - Thank you. - The editorial office of Hungary, please. - Hello! Yes? - Dear Editor, this is Mrs. Károlyi Mihály. - I kiss your hand! Didn't you hear about the shooting? Allegedly, Károlyi was also shot at. Countess, it is completely out of question. I've just spoke to him. - Thank you. - Mama! Good to have you here! What did they do all day? Huh? Come and tell me, okay? Yay! Yay! Yay! Are you going to bed, noble countess? No, I'm still waiting. You order something noble countess? You can go to bed. - Have you calmed down? - It was horrible! They were shooting in my sleep all night. Fortunately, the bullets bounced off from your carriage. Now you can see bloodshed is imminent. Tell it to Uncle Duci in Vienna. - If something doesn't happen... - I must go. It would be so nice if those two people I love the most would understand each other. He loves you. I wouldn't send anyone else. If there is a way, I want to avoid bloodshed. If so, why did you undertake such assignment? Because now I don't even know myself what would be best. If you don't understand politics, why do you want power at all costs? So that the peasants don't burn your castles. Our castles? That's even yours. You are playing with fire. You believe that if the spirit is released from the bottle it will obey you. Look what happened in Russia! Where is Prince Lvov and Kerensky now? Where is the Russian aristocracy? Chaos can be avoided not only by to give in to mass hysteria, but also by making order. The soldiers are no longer willing to board the trains to the front. And if the city commander will shoot to them? If you have to shoot, then they get in. Now they don't get scared the people. I don't understand you, Uncle Duci. Why didn't you push the king to appoint Mihály? This would give the impression that that the king was afraid. Being scared at this time is the worst. I told the king if he appoints Mihály, then put me to the madhouse. My God, it's horrible. If you're so excited about politics, why not an Andrássy do you want to be prime minister? Ella, please! That's it off the agenda. We must endure. There are peace demonstrations on the other side of the front. If the revolution breaks out there sooner, they will be forced to ask for peace. Uncle Duci, only Mihály can prevent anarchy. He is also accepted by the socialists. Mihály gives me his word of honor, that he does not announce the republic? Mihály was always a revolutionary. He wants a republic. Today, however, only the king can hold the country together. If revolution and republic would be his wish then he wouldn't have sent me here. Ich horche Eure Majestät! Ja voll. Ja. Ja voll Eure Majestät! It doesn't matter now I'm afraid. The Italian front collapsed, we have to put down the gun. Tell Mihály be patient! Calm down his hysterical friends. We have a truce, but in the name of the Monarchy. We save what can be saved. Then Mihály will come. Uncle Fat, it's going to be late! The Monarchy no longer exists. The South Slavs and even the Czechs already declared the detachment. Hungary must be saved. Here the manifesto of the National Council! The manifesto of the National Council! As you hear I was a bad diplomat for you. Whatever! Anyway it would have been too late. The revolution broke out. Revolution? Are you joking? I hear gypsy music. I suspect, not the revolution are celebrated. Don't you kidding me. You are having fun there. First Lieutenant Forgó reports to the National Council, we occupied the József telephone exchange. Thank you. Are you okay? Did you have a nice trip? - Mr. Count! - Wait a minute! I cannot find the president of the officer council, Captain Csernyák. He has the military uprising plans. We prepared it for Monday. - What should it be? - Keep looking! Although it would be better to have more accurate data about the units joined us. Yes, sir. - Everything suddenly sped up. - And the government? The army? They were also surprised by this turn of events. They are completely clueless. Wonderful! Bloodless revolution! We hope it will be. I'll call you. Count, I was outside in the barracks, everything looks fine. The revolution has broken out! We close the gate dignified countess? This is our revolution! As you command noble countess! - Mihály? - What do you know? They slaughter the aristocracy, like at the Russians? - If you're so scared, come here! - And if they slaughter you? - Who? - The army loyal to the government. - It they start making order... - If they slaughter us... First, the head of the revolution is cut off. This is the logic of things. Are you trying to scare me? - You should know what's at stake. - Thank you for the warning. - Take him to the ballroom! - Yes, sir! Come on! Don't worry, it's okay. Gyula, to the first window! - Someone turn on the light! - Yes, sir! Move! Move! - Shouldn't you go to bed? - I couldn't sleep anyway. Now what? If the king is out of his mind, and send troops against us, then it will be a civil war. If the soldiers refuse obedience, then nothing could save me from being a revolutionary leader. I already hate when my name they shout in the street. Are you surprised? It all happened as you said. Everything proved you. I considered to be the Messiah, who will lead out the country from disaster. I bring peace, I give bread. Maybe even the heroic dead I will also resurrect. The World Revolution would solve everything. Dream on, my angel. There is no country in Europe where there would be no strikes or demonstrations. It should come. Shouldn't you knock again? Good morning. How can I help? - Good morning. The headquarters started a Bosnian regiment from Buda against the National Council. There is no military force at all the Astoria. What happened? I'm afraid you rushed the revolution. It's going to be a massacre. - The leaders are arrested. - I'm going to the Astoria right now. I'm going too. But Countess, there can be fight at Astoria. Don't argue with my wife! Once she made up his mind... What are you waiting for? Board here! The others take cover! - Machine gun? - They are coming. They are coming. They are coming. Fire a warning shot! We know thanks to the ladies on the phone that the high command urges the king to issue a fire order, because the National Council considered as a counter-government. If he orders it, we will be hanged! Count, a phone call for you. As per request of His Royal Highness Prince József. Apparently, they still want to negotiate. This is Mihály Károlyi. No, as the President of the National Council. You can't go to a Habsburg to negotiate. They capable of everything. I'm not going alone. Jászi and Kunfi also accompany me. Anyway, you see that all units are joining to us. Who knows how many more regiments they have. They will keep you as hostage. Why didn't they come here? We have to go there. They still have the power formally. We want to keep the constitutional forms. You can go home, don't worry. Come! Please! Let's go. Yes? I heard that you visited Uncle Duci, and begged him. So I'm coming now to plead with you. Convince Mihály, stop him the revolution! What do you want from Mihály, maybe that he is no longer alive. You didn't say that first do they cut off the head of the revolution? What happened? Did he get arrested? I don't know. He promised to call me two hours earlier. Nothing since then. I shouldn't have let him go. Where did he go? To the Royal Highness. So Mihály accepted it. Why didn't you told me? And why are you so desperate? The officers can make order within a few days. Kaja, Mihály negotiates with the king but not against the revolution, but in the name of revolution. And they still talk to him? I don't know. There was one person who could save this situation. Mihály. If you betray us, this ring will burn my finger. Does not work. Honorable Countess, they flag up the streets! Where do they get that I'm the wife of the President of Republic? Stay, you're being celebrated! I hope you move to the Royal Palace today. Long live the Republic! Long live the revolution! I'm not the wife of the President of Republic. Her Imperial and Apostolic Royal Highness within or outside the borders of his possessions within or outside the borders of his possessions I'm not a member of any secret society I'm not a member of any secret society or member of a secret covenant. or member of a secret covenant. For the future, I will be the same into an alliance For the future, I will be the same into an alliance I do not initiate under any circumstances. I do not initiate under any circumstances. - God help me! - God help me! To the Blessed Virgin Mary and God all saints. To the Blessed Virgin Mary and God all saints. I thank the ministers the oath. Please provide your signature the text of the oath! While Mihály was busy forming a government, the crowd flooded the streets. The didn't care much with the constitutional forms, already hailed the Republic. Everyone knew, not the king, but from the will of the people the Károlyi government was established. Tisza was murdered by unknown soldiers the night before. The people thought it was the punishment of fate. This was the only bloody event of the revolution. Otherwise, no one objected, neither the army nor the police. Everyone is a supporter of the revolution professed and maybe felt it too. The atmosphere was high. Gentlemen! I prepared it under oath exemption text. Believe me this is the most legal revolution in history of the world. Would you sign, Prime Minister? Thank you, gentlemen! What do you think? Would it be good to change my name to Hungarian? Let's say Alcsúti from Habsburg. I have some estates at Alcsút. József Alcsúti. That sounds more democratic, don't you think? I think your majesty has a pretty good sounding name. I'd keep it if I were you. Yes. O Lord, bless the nation of Hungary With your grace and bounty Extend over it your guarding arm During strife with its enemies Long torn by ill fate Mihály concluded a truce. Succeeded in the later Trianon compared to borders agreeing a more preferable demarcation line in the south. We were happy, full of enthusiasm. Finally Mihály can make it happen, for which it was prepared so long ago. However, the circumstances turned out less favorable as we thought. The country was exhausted by the war. There were no raw materials, no food. The Entente did not dissolve the wartime blockade. The public was also shocked by this favorable demarcation line, especially that some of neighboring countries did not even comply. They had demanded more and more territories. If we don't get supplies, the aid stops. There is a decree that whoever has more than five suits should give the redundant to the Red Cross. One of my brothers-in-law has two hundred suits. Take note, this is a regulation! Countess, I want to make a report confidentially. The police arrested a Romanian woman who is a nurse at the International Red Cross. She is suspected of being a Bolshevik agent. As everyone. Urgent action should be taken otherwise they will hand her over to the Romanians, and it would be certain death for her. Mihály listens to you. He was always influenced by women. Like poor Madeleine. Perhaps all is not lost. What would be lost? You owe your family even if you are the wife of president of the republic. - First Lady. - Don't make fun of me, okay? We can tale everything, but if he wants to divide our lands... You really think that I have any influence on the land reform? Everyone says that you are the one who incites Mihály. We were right to expect it if Mihály joins the Andrássy family, will calm down. Instead, an Andrássy girl began to think normally. So it means that we are not normal. Just piss in your own nest it's the fashion today. That's why everyone says that you are the evil spirit of Mihály. Red Kata! The man among you can only be red. I'm starting to feel proud of myself. Republic, revolution, land reform. And I suggested all of this to Mihály. Mihály has to say only a word and the entire Hungarian officer corps would go for him to fire. If he would make order we could push back Bolshevism. Where is our Bolshevism? Don't pretend you don't know that they took away a floor from us, and street children were settled. - While you are having fun in the Royal Palace. - It's not true. Mihály only has his office there. He goes home to sleep. And where to move those people, who do not have a home, if not there, where is there room. This is the Bolshevism. The West will not tolerate this. Magasházy. Who's talking there? I do not understand. Wrong number. These phones, the connections are false sometime. Nothing works fine anymore in this country. You shouldn't go out to Vienna to a good professor for giving birth? What you went through last time... We don't even have medicine here. - It's risky. - Tell me, what is not risky today? Why did you tell the name of this stupid Magasházy to the phone? That's what is called here secret organization. The only thing I miss that Red Kata to report me. Why do you think? What would she report? That an individual named Magasházy phoned you, it's not forbidden. You were the clumsy to hung up immediately. And what could I have said in the presence of Katus? That Károlyi then and now this or that, this way or anyway? - Anything. - And if Magasházy start to speak on details? Come on! The Russian Army is near. Something must happen. This regime is a disguised Bolshevism. Then better if Béla Kun. Against it, because organized a cousin. But if Károly distributes lands and wins on elections, the game is out this anti-Bolshevism. Our goal is not national separatism. How you look like. If you not undertake that you listen to Béla Kun, why did you come here? Because I'm curious. And I don't want them to use my presence against Mihály. We reject this! Only the proletariat internationalism will free the peoples from chauvinism. A people cannot be free which oppresses other peoples. If the World Revolution wins, various demarcation lines truce truths lose their importance We're not just sending Lt. Col. Vix to hell but his bosses as well to Clemenceau and Lloyd George. So these are Bolsheviks have already been integrated into the police force. A Romanian spy was released who was caught by our interceptors. Supposedly on higher orders referred to. It's good that you started. I couldn't get away. Probably some minister could speak for the Romanian woman. Typical of your ministers, that none of them dare to undertake. How can they if I was who ordered to release her. She is the employee of the International Red Cross. Oh dear, this is police competence. I did not act on your behalf, but as the president of the Red Cross. If you are not Mihály Károlyi's wife, will they let her out? Never mind. The important is that her arrest was illegal. Of a Bolshevik? How can a revolutionary be detained by revolutionary government? This is completely different. We are a legitimate government. Those are legal according to other laws. Pure anarchy! And this is happening all over the country. Everyone does what they want. Peasants occupy lands, the workers fire directors and appoint new ones. The street tries to conduct. Me as Minister of Defense I am exposed to protesting against me. There is a revolution, dear Festetics. Please, Mihály. Thousands of unemployed military officers are on the street. We could set up units within a few days. I see. The people of the street can conduct, but only if they are military officers. Come here! Come to Grandma's! Come on, dear! Here's your hoop! Grab it, oops! All right. Look at how many pebbles there are! Look what's there! Goodbye, Countess! Doctor, I hope there is nothing wrong. The countess needs more rest in the eighth month. Well, that'll do, but the revolution worries me so much. Not the doctor? Countess, I confess I don't understand it. And maybe Katus got it? Answer that, I was right that I let that woman out or not? It was a good idea to rent this house. - It's quiet here. - You're talking about something else. Okay then. I did not want to hurt you at the presence of Festetics... So I wasn't right. - Even if you were right... - Don't be like the politicians. Answer directly: I am right, or not? You see everything so simple, my dear. How should I see what is simple. Hatred of the Gyuri Pallavicini is also simple. You should have listened to them! I'm also fed up with the kinds of Pallavicini and Magasházy. But the republic is threatened not just by the counter-revolution but also the anarchy. So Festetics was right, isn't it? I'm an anarchist too. But then half the country is anarchist, the peasants too who occupy the land because it is not distributed to them. Now we're going to do it. But it had to wait the preparation of the law. And what do you think will it reassure Boji's? That it is legally lost their lands? Not only the owners, the socialists also opposed the distribution of land. It wasn't easy with them either. Four months have passed since the revolution Democracy involves a lot of bargaining, but that's not enough reason to establish a dictatorship. Neither white nor red. People are impatient. If they have nothing at least they expect justice. Maybe you don't understand what I want anymore? It's not about me. We made it an independent country within four months. We proclaimed the republic. There is democracy. Freedom of speech. This is nothing? And don't think that the government can do whatever it wants. We are a loser, exposed country. There is little we can give to the people, but this is already Bolshevism for the Entente. This? They openly demand that we arrest the communists. And you do that? I am not willing to arrest anyone because of political views. But the majority of the government does. Do they want a civil war? Like in Germany? So that you don't have to resort to violence the condition is that also the Pallavicini and Béla Kun follow the rules of the game. Even if it's late, but the law on land reform was passed. The government wanted to divide the land of Mihály's half-brother, József first as punishment, because he was a counter-revolutionary. Mihály insisted that that the distribution of lands should be started on his own estate at Kápolna. That's how it happened. However, the continuation stalled. The land distribution was obstructed from all sides. I couldn't accompany Mihály to Kápolna, but I traveled with him to Szatmár, to the front. Mihály's speech caused a stir created throughout the country. He said: "If the Wilsonian principles do not come true if the negotiated peace and the idea of the right to self-determination will be questioned, if they want us to sign such peace agreement, which means the dismemberment of Hungary, then I say that I will never sign that peace. Hear our word and understand the whole world. You cannot exterminate a people the self-preservation instinct. If the Paris Peace Conference would decide on the mutilation then we will free our country even with guns in the case of necessity." All the nation is starving, it would be non decent here, in the Royal Palace to feast. All the nation is starving, it would be non decent here, in the Royal Palace to feast. Otherwise, it doesn't hurt if they see how the country lives because of your blockade. I admit, I was alarmed by the last one your speech. Armed action in the protection of our territories? Do you see another option? Yes, the situation is hopeless. I would prefer to retire from everything. I accepted your arguments when you resigned from the ministry. But not even for your advice can I lean on?! What can I do to help in this situation? Our common dream, the "Switzerland of the East". The independence of the people referred to each other next to the Danube in fact, a federation of states! Like Western democracies they would intentionally want to make it impossible us to make democracy here. We need a new orientation. The Antant not negotiates with the Soviet-Russians, same with us. They are our natural allies. Sorry. Excuse me. Mr. President, it's urgent! Excuse me. Excuse me. - Sorry, but I'm going to kidnap you. - Just a moment. Mr. President, I was informed from reliable source, the news is true. Here is the sketch map. Incredible! We have to hand over territories which are purely Hungarian. A Hungarian government cannot sign it. Do they mention a referendum to decide on disputed areas? There is no hint of this in the memorandum. This is too much even for the head of the French mission, Lt. Col. Vix. He tries to convince Paris. We are willing to hold a referendum on this. Whatever the outcome. But not as a dictate. If they want to impose such borders without any referendum, the government should resign immediately. I appoint the socialists to form a new government. No thanks, thank you. Has the pain started? No, Aunt Geraldine. I'm going in Mihály to the National Palace. But it could start any minute. Don't worry about the revolution! Mihály will take care of that. I told him a hundred times I won't survive without him by my side. He didn't come home. Something might have gone wrong. May I continue, Mr. President? No use, I won't sign! When in the Council of Ministers we rejected the Vix listing, and the government resigned we agreed on the establishment of a socialist government not about a proletarian dictatorship. "I hand over the power..." How can I sign this? We knew the position of the President about the new orientation, and we imagined that with such a gesture we can ensure continuity. The purpose of occupying the country is to that to make Hungary into a marching and operational area for the soldiers fighting at the Romanian border against the Russian-Soviet army. You could have written this. In fact, they want to pay our neighbours with our territories honoring their anti-Soviet Russian services. I could sign the whole thing. Just not that I'm handing it over the power. The conditions for a proletarian dictatorship are not ready. I consider it rushed. I was sure we act according to the intentions of yours, Mr. President and you will sign it. We have showed it to others, all agreed. Take immediate action not to fall into unauthorized hands! Please. After all, what happened to you you saw it as inevitable. At least don't publish in newspaper. Talk to the editor-in-chief! I'm waiting. Mr. President, there are more newspapers would publish the rebuttal. But I can also arrange to print flyers and posters about it. With the President's counter-statement. I believe the bodyguards in addition to several military formations also available with a weapon to protect the president. Do you want a counter-revolution, Jávorszky? Protection of the legitimate president of the republic. - I know that the officers... - Even they will protect... who were conspired against Mihály. Madam President, considering the chances, there is a possibility to elect the president, like a communist dictatorship. They hate Mihály. Mr. President has a solution ask the Entente for help. Or you can cross to Austria to form a new government. Mr. President, I was late unfortunately. Your statement had been already announced at the works council meeting, which declared the proletarian dictatorship. Please tell the midwife! Yes. Should we notify the doctor? I think we should wait for another pain, and then. Boji was right. We're having fun here in the royal bedroom. But not by right of the president. We also became proletarians. Yes. I await your orders, Mr. President. What do you want with your officers? I have only considered the possibilities. For me, these are not possibilities, Imre. Mr. President. You have no right to allow to use our name to cover the new revolution. And I would have the right to give my name to the counter-revolution? Should I start a civil war? Let me lie those with a rebuttal who wants to serve my national goals with this revolution? Tonight I will service, Mr. President. It's so good that you made this decision. Your presidency was so hopeless. I didn't dare to say until now because you had so much trouble. But now I'm so happy and I feel really free. I want this child would be born today. Today, when we can start over. Be a little more cheerful, please. Another command? What do you think? Will it appear? the ghost of my grandfather to curse me because I'm lying in her most loved queen's bed? Should I put a bodyguard at the door? There's still one for tonight. Everyone was waiting for the World Revolution. There were those with fear. The majority are happy. We thought everything will be solved immediately. Poverty will disappear, we will defeat external and internal enemies, national borders will disappear. National oppression will remain just a bad memory. This hope could made people forget a while even distress. War-weary men took a gun again to stop the counter-revolutionary intervention. - Hello! - Hello! There will be milk for the children in case of supply disruption. - We keep goats. - Please. Is there something wrong? I learned that counter-revolutionary officers want to kill you. I'll take you to the countryside until I get the Austrian papers. I already have them. I'm going in a few days. I'm not afraid. Even when I was president I expected an assassination. I think there are more counter revolutionary officers in Vienna like in Pest. I was thought to America or Italy. Maybe I'll talk to Masaryk, to see you as a guest. I'm not going anywhere. I'll try to help here at home. You didn't agree either with the dictatorship. The commune took on the national cause. This is a fight for freedom. I am also willing to serve as a private soldier. Dictatorship is not viable. A counter-revolution will follow. And it will have two targets: Mihály Károlyi and Oszkár Jászi. If the Soviet-Russians pushing to the West they can save the revolution. Let's not argue about this. I have a different opinion. It has no reality anyway. You authorize me to prepare your emigration? No. I'll let you know when it happens while are you in Vienna. - Mrs. President? - Running as always. This also indicates that there is no danger. She would feel it. - Goodbye! - Goodbye! - Goodbye! - Goodbye! - Who are these? Detectives? - No, my girlfriends. These?! They maybe even have a gun. - Where is Mihály? - In the palace. Well, they just didn't leave it to you? We can keep an apartment. One room out of a hundred. You see, they don't need Mihály either. Aunt Geraldine, nobody can have a palace in communism. It's really natural. A hundred rooms is a lot anyway. And we will work like others. Alright. Tell me when will you go to Vienna? My brother managed to escape yesterday with a lot of stuff. The human trafficking is well organized on Lajta river. If you need the address, I'll give it to you. What a shame that your mother's are already in Switzerland. You could have gone out together few more weeks earlier. Aunt Geraldin, Mihály was president of the republic a few weeks earlier. He could not escape his own system. Yes, of course. But that was at time of the revolution, or... That's why I mix it up. Whatever. It is important that be the end of this damned family hatred. Which is not appropriate. Good to see you, Aunt Geraldine. Dear Mihály. - I have to travel to Vienna. - Why? To contact with Entente proxies. Now they want to negotiate they were scared of the dictatorship. - And when are you leaving? - I'm going by special train. That's great! Then you don't have to run away! Katus can also go on the train it fits a lot. Tell them soon you will give birth no one can be against that. Aunt Geraldine misunderstands. I'm going on an official mission representing the country. I understand! Good formula! Very good formula! - I want to go with you too. - Well, that shouldn't be an obstacle. In her condition? You go by special train. You can also give birth there. I'm worrying about you again. How many times did you wake up at night that I was murdered even you fell asleep next to me. At least promise me to call. Don't let her. You should have go, before it's too late. Mihály will also notice it in Vienna. Count, could you please answer to a question? Couple of questions only, gentlemen. - So you not arrived as an emigrant? - No. Thanks, then no more questions. What thoughts made you think to resign? And if you quit, why does the former president agree a mandate from the new regime? You recognize legitimate the current regime? My government's legitimacy, because the king appointed me I got it from the revolution. If I didn't see it that way, I would not lead the delegation of the Hungarian Soviet Republic. The heart did not lie down the shock of childbirth. Hence the life function complete deceleration. I'm afraid our patient is beyond saving. Katus, don't you need something? Hail Mary, full of malt, the Lord is with you blessed are you among women and blessed is the fruit of your womb Jesus. Our Lady, Virgin Mary, Holy Mother of God, Pray for us sinners now and at the hour of our death. Amen. - Hail Mary, full of malt... - Maybe it should be quieter! I admit, we cannot trust in anything else, but your scare can have a bad effect on our patient. Hail Mary, full of malt, the Lord is with you - What's the time? - Half past one. When will the train arrive from Vienna? It will be here soon. Around three. - Where is the train now? - Maybe at Komárom. Mihály will definitely come, since he messaged. - What's the time? - A quarter to three soon. Next stop is Szőny. Mihály already sees Szőny. Yes, Szőny, then Tatabánya. - Tata first. - You're right, first Tata. - He saw Szőny. - Yes, for sure. - I'm going to the station to tell him to hurry. - Okay. Madame, please. Doctor, I have to hurry to the train station. I have to prepare Mihály for the worst. Countess! Countess! Please come, doctor. Is Mihály coming? Yes, Countess. The Count is coming. It's so good that you came. We have a little girl. We named her Judit. It's good now. To see you. Everything will be fine. I'm here by your side I'll take care of you. The most important thing is that you are beyond all danger. All right. Let's go! We are here and we are very good. Sure, we are very good. Check us out mom! That's right, yes. And how are you? So much has happened in recent weeks. I have often felt that I can't stand it. But when we're together nothing wrong can happen. Honorable countess, leave it. I will do it. No, we discussed that we share the work. This is the law of socialism, that everyone works. Honorable countess, we live by how we work. If we become redundant, then... what will happen to us? You are not redundant. But we have to enforce it principles of communism. Honorable Countess, I cannot go back to my village. We belong to the Czechs, there is no train. Please, noble countess, be considerate of me. Well, Margit, but tomorrow we will discuss it in details. I have to go into town. God bless you, noble countess! That's all I can offer you. Thank you. What kind of terrorist act are you preparing for? Now just to bring a leave letter to your counter-revolutionary husband. It would be nice if Gyuri would stop. because it is getting harder for Mihály to make such a rescue operation. Thank you. As for my outfit, you don't think that they can attack me and should I defend myself? If you're so scared, why not going abroad? I'm not scared. It's not loaded anyway. - We will not run away. - And if something happens? No it won't. The Russian Red Army is approaching the Carpathians. - Don't get your hopes up! - Now it's about you. I'm also talking about myself. After Miskolc and Salgótarján Kassa was also seized the Red Army. They announced the Slovak Soviet Republic at Eperjes. We saw the meeting of Hungarian and the Soviet-Russian Red Army quite close. The Entente offered, if the Hungarians retreat from the Felvidék the Romanians will be ordered back from the Tisza. Only we complied the agreement. The exhausted Hungarian army could not to expel the interventions from the territory of the country. The Soviet Russians had no strength to come to aid the Hungarian Soviet Republic. Bonjour, Madame! Mihály! There's no need... Do not to interfere, please. This is not a joke. We have to be ready every minute. I said I am not fleeing abroad. Then it's useless to send the children to the countryside. This is not an escape. If you want, you go! I'm staying. Please, as you wish! Mihály, open it! Mihály, open it! Mihály! Non! Non! Non! - Where did you get this great bean? - They were brought from Budakeszi. - There is nothing on the market. - Good that you have it. I found out the graduation had been cancelled. I can enroll in the university even without it. I want to be a doctor. I envy you! Finally, even if you're mocking me. I honestly envy you. I can only look back. This depression is quite scary. I warned you comes with old age. This damn passport is the reason! The fact that Béla Kun's would have said the dictatorship of the proletariat needs you. A former count? Instead of a passport they press into your hand. They are treated me as an emigrant at home as well. None of my advice is accepted. Then it's better abroad. Then I cannot see how everything is collapsed. I'm considered your bad spirit although everything happens that way that you want. If it were to happen, we would be in Vienna already. Jászi was acquired all the Austrians permissions. For once, let it be as I want. Let's wait a bit more. Did you find anything else? Yes. This book should be listed. - The complete Voltaire? - Yes, too. Probably artillery exercise. - In the middle of the city? - Please have the inventory... sign here! Family library. I do not want to, if accused of not keeping it. A job like this takes a long time. Until we take an inventory of all nationalized libraries, it takes years. I hope they are up for it years to come. Why wouldn't be? The House of Soviets please! Comrade Garbai, please! And that shooting? Counter-revolutionary forces shot the house from monitors but they are already running away. So it's not dangerous? If there is no other shooting in town, it's not. These are the cannons of the Romanians! Christian national government! They consider themselves patriots. And consider us as traitors. Like in 1914 when they broke these windows. Leave it, fools! Everything is confused again. Even then I asked I'll ask now. Do you accept me? We're going away for a few months. Once they realized that this country needs you. You'll see, they'll call you back. We will celebrate Christmas here, right? Right. There is that white house after the tree. The man who lives there helps comrades across the border. - Have a nice trip! - Goodbye! We crossed the border secretly even we had a passport. that the Hungarian counter revolutionaries in Vienna wouldn't know about our arrival. Mihály felt that by crossing the Lajta we are burning all bridges behind us. I hoped that soon we will be back. Mihály was right. We spent 27 years in exile.